---
title: "RabbitMQ versions compatibilityamqp gem 0.8 migration guide"
layout: article
disqus_identifier: "amqp_rabbitmq_versions"
disqus_url: "http://rdoc.info/github/ruby-amqp/amqp/master/file/docs/RabbitMQVersions.textile"
permalink: "/rabbitmq_versions/"
---

h2. About this guide

This guide covers compatibility of the "Ruby amqp gem":http://github.com/ruby-amqp/amqp with various versions of "RabbitMQ":http://rabbitmq.com messaging broker.

h2. Covered versions

This guide covers "Ruby amqp gem":http://github.com/ruby-amqp/amqp v0.8.0 and later.

h2. RabbitMQ Version Requirement

amqp gem before 0.8.0 (0.6.x, 0.7.x) series implemented (most of) AMQP 0.8 specification. amqp gem 0.8.0 implements AMQP 0.9.1 and thus *requires RabbitMQ version 2.0 or later*. See {file:docs/RabbitMQVersions.textile RabbitMQ versions} for more information about RabbitMQ versions support and how obtain up-todate packages for your operating system.

<span class="note">
amqp gem 0.8.0 and later versions implement AMQP 0.9.1 and thus *requires RabbitMQ version 2.0 or later*
</span>

h2. Using recent versions on Debian and Ubuntu

Ubuntu (even 10.10) and Debian both "ship with an old RabbitMQ version":http://packages.ubuntu.com/maverick/rabbitmq-server, that only supports AMQP protocol 0.8. Ruby amqp gem 0.8.0 and later *will not work with RabbitMQ versions before 2.0.0*.

We strongly recommend that you use "RabbitMQ apt repository":http://www.rabbitmq.com/debian.html#apt that has recent versions of RabbitMQ.

h2. OpsCode Chef & Puppet

h3. Chef cookbook for RabbitMQ

There is a "Chef cookbook for RabbitMQ":https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/tree/master/rabbitmq that installs recent versions from the rabbitmq.com apt repository. It also has LWPRs (providers) for managing users and vhosts.

h3. RabbitMQ Puppet module

There is a "RabbitMQ Puppet module":https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-rabbitmq by the Puppet Labs team. It uses .deb packages from Debian testing and unstable repositories. Note that it has two dependencies:

 * "puppet-stdlib":https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib
 * "puppet-apt":https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet-apt

h2. TLS (SSL) support

Note that "before 1.7.0, RabbitMQ did not support TLS":http://www.rabbitmq.com/ssl.html. In order to have TLS support, RabbitMQ 1.7.0 requires

 * Erlang/OTP R13B or later
 * Erlang SSL 3.10 or later

and recommends using Erlang R141B that ships with Erlang SSL 4.0.1. Learn more in our "Using TLS (SSL)":/article/connection_encryption_with_tls/ guide.
